{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg932\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1041{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Consolas;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\f0\fs16 #######################################################################\par
# MMDAgent                                                            #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
/*           The Toolkit for Building Voice Interaction Systems      */\par
/*           "MMDAgent" developed by MMDAgent Project Team           */\par
/*           {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.mmdagent.jp/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.mmdagent.jp/}}}\f0\fs16                                  */\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/*  Copyright (c) 2009-2015  Nagoya Institute of Technology          */\par
/*                           Department of Computer Science          */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* All rights reserved.                                              */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or        */\par
/* without modification, are permitted provided that the following   */\par
/* conditions are met:                                               */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright  */\par
/*   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.   */\par
/* - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above         */\par
/*   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following     */\par
/*   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided */\par
/*   with the distribution.                                          */\par
/* - Neither the name of the MMDAgent project team nor the names of  */\par
/*   its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products     */\par
/*   derived from this software without specific prior written       */\par
/*   permission.                                                     */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND            */\par
/* CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,       */\par
/* INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF          */\par
/* MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE          */\par
/* DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS */\par
/* BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,          */\par
/* EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED   */\par
/* TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,     */\par
/* DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON */\par
/* ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,   */\par
/* OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY    */\par
/* OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE           */\par
/* POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.                                       */\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# Bullet Physics                                                      #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
/*\par
Bullet Continuous Collision Detection and Physics Library\par
Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Erwin Coumans  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bulletphysics.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://bulletphysics.org}}}\f0\fs16\par
\par
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.\par
In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely,\par
subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required.\par
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.\par
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
*/\par
\par
All files in the Bullet/src folder are under this Zlib license.\par
Files in the Extras and Demos folder may have a different license, see the respective files.\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# FreeType                                                            #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
                    The FreeType Project LICENSE\par
                    ----------------------------\par
\par
                            2006-Jan-27\par
\par
                    Copyright 1996-2002, 2006 by\par
          David Turner, Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg\par
\par
\par
\par
Introduction\par
============\par
\par
  The FreeType  Project is distributed in  several archive packages;\par
  some of them may contain, in addition to the FreeType font engine,\par
  various tools and  contributions which rely on, or  relate to, the\par
  FreeType Project.\par
\par
  This  license applies  to all  files found  in such  packages, and\par
  which do not  fall under their own explicit  license.  The license\par
  affects  thus  the  FreeType   font  engine,  the  test  programs,\par
  documentation and makefiles, at the very least.\par
\par
  This  license   was  inspired  by  the  BSD,   Artistic,  and  IJG\par
  (Independent JPEG  Group) licenses, which  all encourage inclusion\par
  and  use of  free  software in  commercial  and freeware  products\par
  alike.  As a consequence, its main points are that:\par
\par
    o We don't promise that this software works. However, we will be\par
      interested in any kind of bug reports. (`as is' distribution)\par
\par
    o You can  use this software for whatever you  want, in parts or\par
      full form, without having to pay us. (`royalty-free' usage)\par
\par
    o You may not pretend that  you wrote this software.  If you use\par
      it, or  only parts of it,  in a program,  you must acknowledge\par
      somewhere  in  your  documentation  that  you  have  used  the\par
      FreeType code. (`credits')\par
\par
  We  specifically  permit  and  encourage  the  inclusion  of  this\par
  software, with  or without modifications,  in commercial products.\par
  We  disclaim  all warranties  covering  The  FreeType Project  and\par
  assume no liability related to The FreeType Project.\par
\par
\par
  Finally,  many  people  asked  us  for  a  preferred  form  for  a\par
  credit/disclaimer to use in compliance with this license.  We thus\par
  encourage you to use the following text:\par
\par
   """\par
    Portions of this software are copyright <year> The FreeType\par
    Project ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "www.freetype.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 www.freetype.org}}}\f0\fs16 ).  All rights reserved.\par
   """\par
\par
  Please replace <year> with the value from the FreeType version you\par
  actually use.\par
\par
\par
Legal Terms\par
===========\par
\par
0. Definitions\par
--------------\par
\par
  Throughout this license,  the terms `package', `FreeType Project',\par
  and  `FreeType  archive' refer  to  the  set  of files  originally\par
  distributed  by the  authors  (David Turner,  Robert Wilhelm,  and\par
  Werner Lemberg) as the `FreeType Project', be they named as alpha,\par
  beta or final release.\par
\par
  `You' refers to  the licensee, or person using  the project, where\par
  `using' is a generic term including compiling the project's source\par
  code as  well as linking it  to form a  `program' or `executable'.\par
  This  program is  referred to  as  `a program  using the  FreeType\par
  engine'.\par
\par
  This  license applies  to all  files distributed  in  the original\par
  FreeType  Project,   including  all  source   code,  binaries  and\par
  documentation,  unless  otherwise  stated   in  the  file  in  its\par
  original, unmodified form as  distributed in the original archive.\par
  If you are  unsure whether or not a particular  file is covered by\par
  this license, you must contact us to verify this.\par
\par
  The FreeType  Project is copyright (C) 1996-2000  by David Turner,\par
  Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg.  All rights reserved except as\par
  specified below.\par
\par
1. No Warranty\par
--------------\par
\par
  THE FREETYPE PROJECT  IS PROVIDED `AS IS' WITHOUT  WARRANTY OF ANY\par
  KIND, EITHER  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,  INCLUDING, BUT NOT  LIMITED TO,\par
  WARRANTIES  OF  MERCHANTABILITY   AND  FITNESS  FOR  A  PARTICULAR\par
  PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT WILL ANY OF THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS\par
  BE LIABLE  FOR ANY DAMAGES CAUSED  BY THE USE OR  THE INABILITY TO\par
  USE, OF THE FREETYPE PROJECT.\par
\par
2. Redistribution\par
-----------------\par
\par
  This  license  grants  a  worldwide, royalty-free,  perpetual  and\par
  irrevocable right  and license to use,  execute, perform, compile,\par
  display,  copy,   create  derivative  works   of,  distribute  and\par
  sublicense the  FreeType Project (in  both source and  object code\par
  forms)  and  derivative works  thereof  for  any  purpose; and  to\par
  authorize others  to exercise  some or all  of the  rights granted\par
  herein, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
    o Redistribution of  source code  must retain this  license file\par
      (`FTL.TXT') unaltered; any  additions, deletions or changes to\par
      the original  files must be clearly  indicated in accompanying\par
      documentation.   The  copyright   notices  of  the  unaltered,\par
      original  files must  be  preserved in  all  copies of  source\par
      files.\par
\par
    o Redistribution in binary form must provide a  disclaimer  that\par
      states  that  the software is based in part of the work of the\par
      FreeType Team,  in  the  distribution  documentation.  We also\par
      encourage you to put an URL to the FreeType web page  in  your\par
      documentation, though this isn't mandatory.\par
\par
  These conditions  apply to any  software derived from or  based on\par
  the FreeType Project,  not just the unmodified files.   If you use\par
  our work, you  must acknowledge us.  However, no  fee need be paid\par
  to us.\par
\par
3. Advertising\par
--------------\par
\par
  Neither the  FreeType authors and  contributors nor you  shall use\par
  the name of the  other for commercial, advertising, or promotional\par
  purposes without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
  We suggest,  but do not require, that  you use one or  more of the\par
  following phrases to refer  to this software in your documentation\par
  or advertising  materials: `FreeType Project',  `FreeType Engine',\par
  `FreeType library', or `FreeType Distribution'.\par
\par
  As  you have  not signed  this license,  you are  not  required to\par
  accept  it.   However,  as  the FreeType  Project  is  copyrighted\par
  material, only  this license, or  another one contracted  with the\par
  authors, grants you  the right to use, distribute,  and modify it.\par
  Therefore,  by  using,  distributing,  or modifying  the  FreeType\par
  Project, you indicate that you understand and accept all the terms\par
  of this license.\par
\par
4. Contacts\par
-----------\par
\par
  There are two mailing lists related to FreeType:\par
\par
    o freetype@nongnu.org\par
\par
      Discusses general use and applications of FreeType, as well as\par
      future and  wanted additions to the  library and distribution.\par
      If  you are looking  for support,  start in  this list  if you\par
      haven't found anything to help you in the documentation.\par
\par
    o freetype-devel@nongnu.org\par
\par
      Discusses bugs,  as well  as engine internals,  design issues,\par
      specific licenses, porting, etc.\par
\par
  Our home page can be found at\par
\par
    {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.freetype.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.freetype.org}}}\f0\fs16\par
\par
\par
--- end of FTL.TXT ---\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# Freetype GL                                                         #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
/* =========================================================================\par
* Freetype GL - A C OpenGL Freetype engine\par
* Platform:    Any\par
* WWW:         {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://code.google.com/p/freetype-gl/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://code.google.com/p/freetype-gl/}}}\f0\fs16\par
* -------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
* Copyright 2011,2012 Nicolas P. Rougier. All rights reserved.\par
*\par
* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
* modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
*\par
*  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
*     this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
*\par
*  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
*     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
*     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
*\par
* THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY NICOLAS P. ROUGIER ''AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR\par
* IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF\par
* MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO\par
* EVENT SHALL NICOLAS P. ROUGIER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,\par
* INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES\par
* (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
* LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
* ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
* (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF\par
* THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
*\par
* The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation are\par
* those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing official\par
* policies, either expressed or implied, of Nicolas P. Rougier.\par
* ========================================================================= */\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# GLee                                                                #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
Copyright (c)2009  Ben Woodhouse  All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are \par
met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer as\par
the first lines of this file unmodified.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY BEN WOODHOUSE ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL BEN WOODHOUSE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT\par
NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\par
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY\par
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF\par
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# GLFW                                                                #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Marcus Geelnard\par
Copyright (c) 2006-2010 Camilla Berglund <elmindreda@elmindreda.org>\par
\par
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied\par
warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages\par
arising from the use of this software.\par
\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it\par
freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not\par
   claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software\par
   in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would\par
   be appreciated but is not required.\par
\par
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not\par
   be misrepresented as being the original software.\par
\par
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source\par
   distribution.\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# hts_engine API                                                      #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
/*           The HMM-Based Speech Synthesis Engine "hts_engine API"  */\par
/*           developed by HTS Working Group                          */\par
/*           {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hts-engine.sourceforge.net/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://hts-engine.sourceforge.net/}}}\f0\fs16                       */\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/*  Copyright (c) 2001-2015  Nagoya Institute of Technology          */\par
/*                           Department of Computer Science          */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/*                2001-2008  Tokyo Institute of Technology           */\par
/*                           Interdisciplinary Graduate School of    */\par
/*                           Science and Engineering                 */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* All rights reserved.                                              */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or        */\par
/* without modification, are permitted provided that the following   */\par
/* conditions are met:                                               */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright  */\par
/*   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.   */\par
/* - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above         */\par
/*   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following     */\par
/*   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided */\par
/*   with the distribution.                                          */\par
/* - Neither the name of the HTS working group nor the names of its  */\par
/*   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived */\par
/*   from this software without specific prior written permission.   */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND            */\par
/* CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,       */\par
/* INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF          */\par
/* MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE          */\par
/* DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS */\par
/* BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,          */\par
/* EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED   */\par
/* TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,     */\par
/* DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON */\par
/* ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,   */\par
/* OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY    */\par
/* OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE           */\par
/* POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.                                       */\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# JPEG                                                                #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
In plain English:\par
\par
1. We don't promise that this software works.  (But if you find any bugs,\par
   please let us know!)\par
2. You can use this software for whatever you want.  You don't have to pay us.\par
3. You may not pretend that you wrote this software.  If you use it in a\par
   program, you must acknowledge somewhere in your documentation that\par
   you've used the IJG code.\par
\par
In legalese:\par
\par
The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,\par
with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or\par
fitness for a particular purpose.  This software is provided "AS IS", and you,\par
its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.\par
\par
This software is copyright (C) 1991-2011, Thomas G. Lane, Guido Vollbeding.\par
All Rights Reserved except as specified below.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this\par
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to these\par
conditions:\par
(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then this\par
README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty notice\par
unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original files\par
must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.\par
(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying\par
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work of\par
the Independent JPEG Group".\par
(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts\par
full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept\par
NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.\par
\par
These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG code,\par
not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work, you ought to\par
acknowledge us.\par
\par
Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company name\par
in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products derived from\par
it.  This software may be referred to only as "the Independent JPEG Group's\par
software".\par
\par
We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis of\par
commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are\par
assumed by the product vendor.\par
\par
\par
ansi2knr.c is included in this distribution by permission of L. Peter Deutsch,\par
sole proprietor of its copyright holder, Aladdin Enterprises of Menlo Park, CA.\par
ansi2knr.c is NOT covered by the above copyright and conditions, but instead\par
by the usual distribution terms of the Free Software Foundation; principally,\par
that you must include source code if you redistribute it.  (See the file\par
ansi2knr.c for full details.)  However, since ansi2knr.c is not needed as part\par
of any program generated from the IJG code, this does not limit you more than\par
the foregoing paragraphs do.\par
\par
The Unix configuration script "configure" was produced with GNU Autoconf.\par
It is copyright by the Free Software Foundation but is freely distributable.\par
The same holds for its supporting scripts (config.guess, config.sub,\par
ltmain.sh).  Another support script, install-sh, is copyright by X Consortium\par
but is also freely distributable.\par
\par
The IJG distribution formerly included code to read and write GIF files.\par
To avoid entanglement with the Unisys LZW patent, GIF reading support has\par
been removed altogether, and the GIF writer has been simplified to produce\par
"uncompressed GIFs".  This technique does not use the LZW algorithm; the\par
resulting GIF files are larger than usual, but are readable by all standard\par
GIF decoders.\par
\par
We are required to state that\par
    "The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is the Copyright property of\par
    CompuServe Incorporated.  GIF(sm) is a Service Mark property of\par
    CompuServe Incorporated."\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# Julius                                                              #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
*** This is English translation of the Japanese original for reference ***\par
\par
\par
     Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition Engine Julius\par
\par
\par
 Copyright (c) 1991-2013 Kawahara Lab., Kyoto University\par
 Copyright (c) 1997-2000 Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan\par
 Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Shikano Lab., Nara Institute of Science and Technology\par
 Copyright (c) 2005-2013 Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology\par
\par
"Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition Engine Julius",\par
including Julian, is being developed at Kawahara Lab., Kyoto\par
University, Shikano Lab., Nara Institute of Science and Technology,\par
and Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology (collectively\par
referred to herein as the "Licensers").  Julius was funded by the\par
Advanced Information Technology Program Project of\par
Information-technology Promotion Agency (IPA), Japan for three years\par
since 1997.\par
\par
The Licensers reserve the copyright thereto.  However, as long as you\par
accept and remain in strict compliance with the terms and conditions\par
of the license set forth herein, you are hereby granted a royalty-free\par
license to use "Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition Engine\par
Julius" including the source code thereof and the documentation\par
thereto (collectively referred to herein as the "Software").  Use by\par
you of the Software shall constitute acceptance by you of all terms\par
and conditions of the license set forth herein.\par
\par
\tab       TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENSE\par
\par
1. So long as you accept and strictly comply with the terms and\par
conditions of the license set forth herein, the Licensers will not\par
enforce the copyright or moral rights in respect of the Software, in\par
connection with the use, copying, duplication, adaptation,\par
modification, preparation of a derivative work, aggregation with\par
another program, or insertion into another program of the Software or\par
the distribution or transmission of the Software.  However, in the\par
event you or any other user of the Software revises all or any portion\par
of the Software, and such revision is distributed, then, in addition\par
to the notice required to be affixed pursuant to paragraph 2 below, a\par
notice shall be affixed indicating that the Software has been revised,\par
and indicating the date of such revision and the name of the person or\par
entity that made the revision.\par
\par
2. In the event you provide to any third party all or any portion of\par
the Software, whether for copying, duplication, adaptation,\par
modification, preparation of a derivative work, aggregation with\par
another program, insertion into another program, or other use, you\par
shall affix the following copyright notice and all terms and\par
conditions of this license (both the Japanese original and English\par
translation) as set forth herein, without any revision or change\par
whatsoever.\par
\par
                      Form of copyright notice:\par
\par
 Copyright (c) 1991-2013 Kawahara Lab., Kyoto University\par
 Copyright (c) 1997-2000 Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan\par
 Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Shikano Lab., Nara Institute of Science and Technology\par
 Copyright (c) 2005-2013 Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology\par
\par
3. When you publish or present any results by using the Software, you\par
must explicitly mention your use of "Large Vocabulary Continuous\par
Speech Recognition Engine Julius".\par
\par
4. The Licensers are licensing the Software, which is the trial\par
product of research and project, on an "as is" and royalty-free basis,\par
and makes no warranty or guaranty whatsoever with respect to the\par
Software, whether express or implied, irrespective of the nation where\par
used, and whether or not arising out of statute or otherwise,\par
including but not limited to any warranty or guaranty with respect to\par
quality, performance, merchantability, fitness for a particular\par
purpose, absence of defects, or absence of infringement of copyright,\par
patent rights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights,\par
trade secrets or proprietary rights of any third party.  You and every\par
other user of the Software hereby acknowledge that the Software is\par
licensed without any warranty or guaranty, and assume all risks\par
arising out of the absence of any warranty or guaranty.  In the event\par
that obligations imposed upon you by judgment of a court would make it\par
impossible for you to comply with the conditions of this license, you\par
may not use the Software.\par
\par
The Licensers shall not have any liability to you or to any third\par
party for damages or liabilities of any nature whatsoever arising out\par
of your use of or inability to use the Software, whether of an\par
ordinary, special, direct, indirect, consequential or incidental\par
nature (including without limitation lost profits) or otherwise, and\par
whether arising out of contract, negligence, tortuous conduct, product\par
liability or any other legal theory or reason whatsoever of any nation\par
or jurisdiction.\par
\par
5. This license of use of the Software shall be governed by the laws\par
of Japan, and the Kyoto District Court shall have exclusive primary\par
jurisdiction with respect to all disputes arising with respect\par
thereto.\par
\par
6. Inquiries for support or maintenance of the Software, or inquiries\par
concerning this license of use besides the conditions above, may be\par
sent to Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology, or\par
Kawahara Lab., Kyoto University.\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# libpng                                                              #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
This copy of the libpng notices is provided for your convenience.  In case of\par
any discrepancy between this copy and the notices in the file png.h that is\par
included in the libpng distribution, the latter shall prevail.\par
\par
COPYRIGHT NOTICE, DISCLAIMER, and LICENSE:\par
\par
If you modify libpng you may insert additional notices immediately following\par
this sentence.\par
\par
This code is released under the libpng license.\par
\par
libpng versions 1.2.6, August 15, 2004, through 1.5.12, July 11, 2012, are\par
Copyright (c) 2004, 2006-2012 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are\par
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.2.5\par
with the following individual added to the list of Contributing Authors\par
\par
   Cosmin Truta\par
\par
libpng versions 1.0.7, July 1, 2000, through 1.2.5 - October 3, 2002, are\par
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are\par
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.0.6\par
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors\par
\par
   Simon-Pierre Cadieux\par
   Eric S. Raymond\par
   Gilles Vollant\par
\par
and with the following additions to the disclaimer:\par
\par
   There is no warranty against interference with your enjoyment of the\par
   library or against infringement.  There is no warranty that our\par
   efforts or the library will fulfill any of your particular purposes\par
   or needs.  This library is provided with all faults, and the entire\par
   risk of satisfactory quality, performance, accuracy, and effort is with\par
   the user.\par
\par
libpng versions 0.97, January 1998, through 1.0.6, March 20, 2000, are\par
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are\par
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.96,\par
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:\par
\par
   Tom Lane\par
   Glenn Randers-Pehrson\par
   Willem van Schaik\par
\par
libpng versions 0.89, June 1996, through 0.96, May 1997, are\par
Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger\par
Distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.88,\par
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:\par
\par
   John Bowler\par
   Kevin Bracey\par
   Sam Bushell\par
   Magnus Holmgren\par
   Greg Roelofs\par
   Tom Tanner\par
\par
libpng versions 0.5, May 1995, through 0.88, January 1996, are\par
Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.\par
\par
For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Contributing Authors"\par
is defined as the following set of individuals:\par
\par
   Andreas Dilger\par
   Dave Martindale\par
   Guy Eric Schalnat\par
   Paul Schmidt\par
   Tim Wegner\par
\par
The PNG Reference Library is supplied "AS IS".  The Contributing Authors\par
and Group 42, Inc. disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied,\par
including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of\par
fitness for any purpose.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc.\par
assume no liability for direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary,\par
or consequential damages, which may result from the use of the PNG\par
Reference Library, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this\par
source code, or portions hereof, for any purpose, without fee, subject\par
to the following restrictions:\par
\par
1. The origin of this source code must not be misrepresented.\par
\par
2. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such and must not\par
   be misrepresented as being the original source.\par
\par
3. This Copyright notice may not be removed or altered from any\par
   source or altered source distribution.\par
\par
The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. specifically permit, without\par
fee, and encourage the use of this source code as a component to\par
supporting the PNG file format in commercial products.  If you use this\par
source code in a product, acknowledgment is not required but would be\par
appreciated.\par
\par
\par
A "png_get_copyright" function is available, for convenient use in "about"\par
boxes and the like:\par
\par
   printf("%s",png_get_copyright(NULL));\par
\par
Also, the PNG logo (in PNG format, of course) is supplied in the\par
files "pngbar.png" and "pngbar.jpg (88x31) and "pngnow.png" (98x31).\par
\par
Libpng is OSI Certified Open Source Software.  OSI Certified Open Source is a\par
certification mark of the Open Source Initiative.\par
\par
Glenn Randers-Pehrson\par
glennrp at users.sourceforge.net\par
July 11, 2012\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# MeCab                                                               #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2001-2008, Taku Kudo\par
Copyright (c) 2004-2008, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are\par
permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above\par
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the\par
   following disclaimer.\par
\par
 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above\par
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the\par
   following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other\par
   materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
 * Neither the name of the Nippon Telegraph and Telegraph Corporation\par
   nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or\par
   promote products derived from this software without specific\par
   prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A\par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR\par
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS\par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR\par
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF\par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# Open JTalk                                                          #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
/*           The Japanese TTS System "Open JTalk"                    */\par
/*           developed by HTS Working Group                          */\par
/*           {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://open-jtalk.sourceforge.net/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://open-jtalk.sourceforge.net/}}}\f0\fs16                       */\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/*  Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Nagoya Institute of Technology          */\par
/*                           Department of Computer Science          */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* All rights reserved.                                              */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or        */\par
/* without modification, are permitted provided that the following   */\par
/* conditions are met:                                               */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright  */\par
/*   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.   */\par
/* - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above         */\par
/*   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following     */\par
/*   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided */\par
/*   with the distribution.                                          */\par
/* - Neither the name of the HTS working group nor the names of its  */\par
/*   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived */\par
/*   from this software without specific prior written permission.   */\par
/*                                                                   */\par
/* THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND            */\par
/* CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,       */\par
/* INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF          */\par
/* MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE          */\par
/* DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS */\par
/* BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,          */\par
/* EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED   */\par
/* TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,     */\par
/* DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON */\par
/* ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,   */\par
/* OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY    */\par
/* OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE           */\par
/* POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.                                       */\par
/* ----------------------------------------------------------------- */\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# PortAudio                                                           #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
/*\par
 * PortAudio Portable Real-Time Audio Library\par
 * PortAudio API Header File\par
 * Latest version available at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.portaudio.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.portaudio.com}}}\f0\fs16\par
 *\par
 * Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Ross Bencina and Phil Burk\par
 *\par
 * Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining\par
 * a copy of this software and associated documentation files\par
 * (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,\par
 * including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,\par
 * publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,\par
 * and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,\par
 * subject to the following conditions:\par
 *\par
 * The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be\par
 * included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
 *\par
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,\par
 * EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
 * MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.\par
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR\par
 * ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF\par
 * CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION\par
 * WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
 */\par
\par
/*\par
 * The text above constitutes the entire PortAudio license; however, \par
 * the PortAudio community also makes the following non-binding requests:\par
 *\par
 * Any person wishing to distribute modifications to the Software is\par
 * requested to send the modifications to the original developer so that\par
 * they can be incorporated into the canonical version. It is also \par
 * requested that these non-binding requests be included along with the \par
 * license above.\par
 */\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# RE2                                                                 #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
// Copyright (c) 2009 The RE2 Authors. All rights reserved.\par
//\par
// Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
// modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are\par
// met:\par
//\par
//    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
// notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
//    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above\par
// copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer\par
// in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
// distribution.\par
//    * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its\par
// contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from\par
// this software without specific prior written permission.\par
//\par
// THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS\par
// "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
// LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR\par
// A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT\par
// OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
// SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
// LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\par
// DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY\par
// THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
// (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\par
// OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# UTF8 CPP                                                            #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
// Copyright 2006 Nemanja Trifunovic\par
\par
/*\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization\par
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by\par
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,\par
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the\par
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to\par
do so, all subject to the following:\par
\par
The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including\par
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,\par
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and\par
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative\par
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by\par
a source language processor.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT\par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,\par
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER\par
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
*/\par
\par
#######################################################################\par
# zlib                                                                #\par
#######################################################################\par
\par
 (C) 1995-2012 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler\par
\par
  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied\par
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages\par
  arising from the use of this software.\par
\par
  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it\par
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not\par
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software\par
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be\par
     appreciated but is not required.\par
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be\par
     misrepresented as being the original software.\par
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
\par
  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler\par
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu\par
\par
If you use the zlib library in a product, we would appreciate *not* receiving\par
lengthy legal documents to sign.  The sources are provided for free but without\par
warranty of any kind.  The library has been entirely written by Jean-loup\par
Gailly and Mark Adler; it does not include third-party code.\par
\par
If you redistribute modified sources, we would appreciate that you include in\par
the file ChangeLog history information documenting your changes.  Please read\par
the FAQ for more information on the distribution of modified source versions.\par
\par
}
 